# April 2022 Virtual Meeting

The Private Advertising Technology CG's will be meeting on April 5th and 7th for 3 hours each day.

## Schedule 

### Day 1 Start 

| Time          | Day    | Location      |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 22:00 (10 PM) | 05 Tue | Tokyo         |
| 23:00 (11 PM) | 05 Tue | Sydney        |
| 06:00         | 05 Tue | Seattle       |
| 09:00         | 05 Tue | Boston        |
| 14:00 (02 PM) | 05 Tue | London        |
| 15:00 (03 PM) | 05 Tue | Brussels      |

### Day 2 Start 

| Time          | Day    | Location      |
| ------------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 22:00 (10 PM) | 07 Thu | Tokyo         |
| 23:00 (11 PM) | 07 Thu | Sydney        |
| 06:00         | 07 Thu | Seattle       |
| 09:00         | 07 Thu | Boston        |
| 14:00 (02 PM) | 07 Thu | London        |
| 15:00 (03 PM) | 07 Thu | Brussels      |

## Joining Information

[WebEx Link](https://mit.webex.com/mit/j.php?MTID=m6ba2258ea91917d9b56eb3e3865cda09)


## Agenda

### Day 1 Agenda

- <= 10m: Intro, Google Doc, Call for Scribes
- <= 35m: 25m Presentation on: [Consider the Reach and Frequency Use Case for Ads Measurement](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/12) by [@rmirisola](https://github.com/rmirisola) / 10m Q&A
- == 5m: Break
- <= 1h 15m: [Should PATCG be opinionated on which technologies are used to enable privacy?](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/39)
  - 5m Introduction of Topic and Proposed Private Computation Goals by [@eriktaubeneck](https://github.com/eriktaubeneck) 
  - 5m Questions / Discussion on Proposed Goals 
  - 7m Introduction to TEEs by Andras Slemmer 
  - 7m Attacks on TEEs by Yuval Yarom
  - 11m Questions and Discussion on TEEs
  - 10m Introduction to MPC
  - 11m Question / Discussion on MPCs 
  - 19m Discussion on Next Steps for Consensus 
- == 5m: Break, free talk, etc...
- ~ 40m: [Reviewing](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/7) Working Group [charter](https://github.com/patcg/patwg-charter/blob/main/charter.html), [PRs](https://github.com/patcg/patwg-charter/pulls) and [Issues](https://github.com/patcg/patwg-charter/issues). 
- <= 10m: Overflow for working group discussion OR Schedule next meeting

### Day 2 Agenda

- <= 20m: Opening Review / Q&A
- == 30m: 20m presenting [Collective Governance of Infrastructure proposal](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/40) by [@darobin](https://github.com/darobin) / 10m Q&A
- == 5m break
- == 15m: Q&A on [Operational Experience with MPC](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/44) by [@tgeoghegan](https://github.com/tgeoghegan)
- <= 30m: [Progress report on Private Measurement](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/42)
- == 30m: [Update on Privacy Principles](https://github.com/patcg/meetings/issues/43) by [@darobin](https://github.com/darobin)
- == 5m break
- <= 40m: Review [Charter Changes and Calls for Consensus](https://github.com/patcg/patcg.github.io/pulls) with [@aramzs](https://github.com/AramZS) & [@seanturner](https://github.com/seanturner)
- == 5m: Schedule next meeting OR Charter discussion overflow. 

## Minutes

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1zsFNB-1tNUbSP6V2xpCDhiaPUN3B_lT_qn0OnzLvtYM/edit?usp=sharing
